Okay.
So in this lesson, I want us to practice a little bit more with using the raft function inside our
components set up method.
So you may recall from our original accordion implementation using the options API that we used, this
is open property right here to conditionally display the slot content.
So whenever this is open property is set to true.
This part is revealed and it shows the actual content that the parent provides in the slot.
So in other words, this is what we show whenever the component is in its expanded state and then when
is open is set to false because of the V if directive we don't render this at all and that's what we
see when the component is in its closed or collapsed state.
So as a quick reminder, the way we implemented this is we had and is open property in our data and
then we had our open method and that was the one that flipped or inverted.
The value of whatever is open was currently.
And so the idea here is that we can go from collapsed to expanded back to collapsed then to expand it
with every click.
So we take the boolean value and is open, we flip it around and then we save it and that's how we end
up with the next value.
And that process continues because we always keep flip flipping from false to true and to false and
true again, etc. So I want to implement this exact same functionality, but now using a rest.
So here's how we're going to do that.
We're expecting and is open property right here for our VFR directive.
So I need to make sure that in the object I return from, my setup method I need to have is open in
there.
So let's define is open right here.
And what I'm going to do is provide false inside my invocation of RAF.
The reason I'm using RAF is because I expect this value to change over time.
And furthermore, I want to capture that reactivity because that reactivity is going to be presented
somewhere in my template.
It's going to, in this case, not be something we interpolate like header, but something we use in
VRF, which means it has to be open and receptive to change and also has to be able to tell the template
that something has changed.
So we need the concept of reactivity.
Basically, whenever we're going to be using any data that is going to change in our component, instead
of using the data property like an options API, we're going to be using RAF in the new composition
API.
So I'm going to declare is open with a starter value false.
And before I forget, let's immediately include it as one of our properties inside the object that we
return.
So now we have had our open and is open available to be used in our template but in our actual open
function right here.
Previously we were modifying the value of header.
That was just for the sake of example.
Here is where we want to actually do the logic to flip the current value of the is open property.
So remember is open is now a reactive object with the value property.
So if I want to overwrite it when this function runs, in other words, when the user clicks on this
div right here, I want to take my reactive object, I want to access its value property and then I
want to invert the current property that I have.
So how do I get the current property I take my is open object, my reactive object.
I use the value property to get the current boolean and then I can flip it around with an exclamation
point.
So take whatever the value is and then give me the opposite.
If it's true, give me false.
If it's false, give me true and then save that value to my is open reactive object.
Make sure to export it and that is going to do everything as we want it to do.
So now we're going to provide is open once again is open now is actually going to be a reactive object.
However, Vue knows that what we really want is the Boolean inside that object, which is the value
of either false or true.
So Vue is going to substitute true or false here, not just a reactive object.
So just like with the interpolation, it's going to take care of that logic behind the scenes.
So with that, let's take us to the browser.
And we're going to see that when I click this.
There we go.
We are expanding each one of these and we can see they are expanding.
When I click again, we're going to collapse it again.
So now we have our original expanding and collapsing functionality.
When we click on it, we run the open method, we invert the is open ref to be the alternative value
which modifies the VRF to render this.
When we click this again, we once again, once again trigger the click handler to rerun the open function,
the open method.
And what happens then is it once again inverts the value of the is open ref value, thus changing the
VRF and thus removing the formerly rendered content.
The same logic applies to any accordion we have here.
All right, so now we've captured three of the original properties in our template.
In the next lesson, we'll finally take care of the fourth.